Add WPiOS Integration document (#3383)
wordpress-mobile/gutenberg-mobile: WPiOS Integration.md

# WordPress iOS Integration Guide

## How to work with local gutenberg-mobile checkout

> You need to set `LOCAL_GUTENBERG` environment variable to the local `gutenberg-mobile` folder relative to the `WPiOS` folder.  

Reviewer: 👋 Ceyhun, thanks for opening this PR!

I wonder, what do you think about adding a small "intro" paragraph about where `LOCAL_GUTENBERG` plays a role? I mean, it looks like the only effect the flag has is to set cocoapods up for using a locally available checkout of the gutenberg-mobile repo, from which then the App JS bundle is picked up, right? And for example, it plays no particular role to which WPiOS run scheme will be selected, whether Metro will be used or not, etc. I feel a short paragraph like that to set the overall stage about what `LOCAL_GUTENBERG` is about can be useful. wdyt?

Author: Sounds good 👍

By default `LOCAL_GUTENBERG` is set to `../gutenberg-mobile`.

> 1. First `cd` into WPiOS project folder and run `rake dependencies`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. First `cd` into your cloned [WPiOS](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS) project folder and run `rake dependencies`
```

2. (a) If `gutenberg-mobile` is at `../gutenberg-mobile` you can directly run:
```sh
LOCAL_GUTENBERG=true bundle exec pod install
```
2. (b) Otherwise pass in the relative `gutenberg-mobile` folder like this:
```sh
LOCAL_GUTENBERG=../../xyz/gutenberg-mobile bundle exec pod install
```

3. Start the metro server in `gutenberg-mobile` with `npm run start:reset`
4. Launch the WPiOS workspace (`.xcworkspace`) in Xcode and run the app
5. You can change any JS files and metro should pick the changes up
6. If you change any native files (Swift, Objective-C, etc.) you should re-run the WPiOS app for the changes to be reflected

## How to test a gutenberg-mobile PR in WPiOS

Assuming that there is no open WPiOS PR:

1. Open `Podfile` in WPiOS project
2. Find the line where gutenberg reference is set like: `gutenberg :tag => 'vX.YY.Z'`

> 3. Find latest commit hash of the gutenberg-mobile PR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Find latest commit hash of the `gutenberg-mobile` PR
```

4. Replace the gutenberg reference with the commit hash: `gutenberg :commit => '123456789'`
5. Run `bundle exec pod install` inside WPiOS

> 6. Start the metro server in `gutenberg-mobile` with `npm run start:reset`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Switch to the relevant branch in `gutenberg-mobile`and start the metro server with `npm run start:reset`
```

7. Launch the WPiOS workspace (`.xcworkspace`) in Xcode and run the app

**Additionally to share a WPiOS installable build (IPA)**

> 8. Stop the metro server and create bundles running `npm run bundle`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Within `gutenberg-mobile`, stop the metro server and create bundles running `npm run bundle`
```

9. Commit and push the bundle changes to `gutenberg-mobile`

> 10. Update the commit hash in the Podfile again and run `bundle exec pod install` again

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. Update the commit hash in the WPiOS Podfile again and run `bundle exec pod install` again
```

11. Commit and push the changes to `Podfile` and `Podfile.lock`
12. Open a WPiOS PR
13. Manually trigger the CI job in that PR which creates the installable build

**Additionally to release a alpha version of gutenberg-mobile and update WPiOS PR to use it**

14. Merge the `gutenberg-mobile` PR (make sure the bundles are up-to-date before merging)
15. Tag the merge commit bumping the latest tag's minor version and adding an `-alphaQ` to the end like: `v1.50.0 -> v1.51.0-alpha1`
16. If there's already an alpha, the alpha version could be increased like: `v1.51.0-alpha1` -> `v1.51.0-alpha2`

> 17. Open the `Podfile` again and update the gutenberg reference to use the new alpha tag: `gutenberg :tag => 'vX.YY.Z'`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
17. Open the `Podfile` again and update the gutenberg reference to use the new alpha tag: `gutenberg :tag => 'v1.51.0-alpha1'`
```

# WordPress iOS Integration Guide

## How to work with local gutenberg-mobile checkout

> The `LOCAL_GUTENBERG` environment variable is useful when you want to iterate on the native iOS code (Swift, Objective-C) in `gutenberg-mobile` while testing it inside [WPiOS](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS) app. This also includes the case when you update a dependency in `gutenberg-mobile` that has native code in it. This flag plays no role in which WPiOS run scheme will be selected or whether Metro will be used or not, but it will affect which JS bundle WPiOS will use. In case the flag is enabled, it will be the one in locally available checkout of the `gutenberg-mobile` repo. That's why, when using this flag, it would be better to run the Metro server or recreate JS bundles in local `gutenberg-mobile` checkout so that the native and JS code are in sync. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `LOCAL_GUTENBERG` environment variable is useful when you want to iterate on the native iOS code (Swift, Objective-C) in `gutenberg-mobile` while testing it inside the [WPiOS](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS) app. This also includes the case when you update a dependency in `gutenberg-mobile` that includes native code.

The `LOCAL_GUTENBERG` flag sets which JS bundle WPiOS uses. It does not impact which WPiOS run scheme is selected or whether or not Metro is used. When the flag is enabled, the bundle available within the local `gutenberg-mobile` checkout is used. That's why, when using this flag, it is better to run the Metro server or recreate JS bundles in the local `gutenberg-mobile` checkout so that the native and JS code are in sync. 
```

Author: Much better, thanks!

5. You can change any JS files and metro should pick the changes up
6. If you change any native files (Swift, Objective-C, etc.) you should re-run the WPiOS app for the changes to be reflected

## How to test a gutenberg-mobile PR in WPiOS

Assuming that there is no open WPiOS PR:

1. Open `Podfile` in WPiOS project
2. Find the line where gutenberg reference is set like: `gutenberg :tag => 'vX.YY.Z'`
3. Find latest commit hash of the `gutenberg-mobile` PR
4. Replace the gutenberg reference with the commit hash: `gutenberg :commit => '123456789'`
5. Run `bundle exec pod install` inside WPiOS
6. Switch to the relevant branch in `gutenberg-mobile`and start the metro server with `npm run start:reset`
7. Launch the WPiOS workspace (`.xcworkspace`) in Xcode and run the app

**Additionally to share a WPiOS installable build (IPA)**

8. Within `gutenberg-mobile`, stop the metro server and create bundles running `npm run bundle`
9. Commit and push the bundle changes to `gutenberg-mobile`
10. Update the commit hash in the WPiOS Podfile again and run `bundle exec pod install` again
11. Commit and push the changes to `Podfile` and `Podfile.lock`
12. Open a WPiOS PR

> 13. Manually trigger the CI job in that PR which creates the installable build

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
13. Manually trigger the installable build CI job by clicking the link in the PR comments
```
